---
layout: post
title: Don't Rush Out And Buy The Latest And Greatest
tags: Opinion
date: 2012-03-23 10:52:21.000000000 -05:00
---
<p>A lot of younger and more inexperienced photographers I've met over the years have a bad case of gadget envy.  I always hear them saying '...if I only had this lens' or 'if I had this new DSLR body then I would really be so much better'.  Repeat with me: <em><strong>Buying new gear does not make you a better photographer</strong></em>. Trust me, I've been there - I still get the bug every now and then, but thankfully my experience wins out in the end. I started writing this post because the new Canon EOS 5D MkIII was just announced and is poised to hit the market very soon (update: <em>today</em>).</p>

<p>Just because the 5D MkIII is now on the market that does not make your DSLR any less of a camera. If you have a Rebel T2i or an EOS 60D, the jump to the 5D MkIII is not going to instantly make your photos better. The difference between an 18.1MP photograph from an entry level T2i and a 22.3MP photograph from the new MkIII are going to be negligible at best. Unless you are doing glamour shots for Vogue or full spreads for National Geographic your current camera is up to the task. The new Digic 5+ processor is not going to compose better photographs for you and having a 63-Zone Dual Layer Metering system is not going to magically fix that lighting problem you've been having in the photos you've taken so far.  Practice and experience make the photographer, not the camera.</p>

<p><em>But, but, but I want that shiny new camera that was just released, its soooo much better!</em> Guess what - I still shoot to this day with an 6.1MP EOS 10D, which is now almost 10 years old. Technology wise most people categorize this as a 'dinosaur', heck, most cell phones have higher megapixel counts. Every photo in <a href="/?page_id=133">my gallery</a> was shot with the 10D. When I first got it I experienced a lot of growing pains - I was exploring night photography, taking long exposures of the city and I found myself constantly looking at the pro level EOS SLRs thinking they would take me to the next level. I was frustrated about the quality of photographs I was taking. Would a pro level camera back then make my photos any better? Nope. I would have made the same mistakes in composition and lighting and been just as frustrated and my wallet would have been a lot lighter. I took my time to learn my craft, discussing my work with other photographers, learning as much as I could.  Now shooting with that same camera I am getting photos that I am truly proud of, and the only thing I upgraded was my experience.</p>
